`Mar 30, 2025`
This reading response was in response to two of the articles that the class read in preparation for the Counter messaging campaign. 

---
# Reading Response 2

For the first article that I’d like to respond to be the “What we can learn from conspiracy theories” article that we read for the Mini Podcast assignment. In this article it gave the example of the Mass poisoning from the year 331 BC. At the time they believed that a group of women were responsible for the mass poisoning. But we now know that the cause of the deaths was just a disease outbreak. The effects of the disease outbreak were blamed on the women who were most likely creating medicine to help with the effects of the sickness. This blame is explained due to the need that was described in the article that “people turn to conspiracy theories more when they're confronted with crisis situations.” This need for people to blame something when there is a crisis can also explain why we saw the increase in conspiracy theories in 2020 during the pandemic. People want to know what is going on and when the authorities cannot offer an explanation at all or one that seems too far-fetched, people begin to fill in the dots by themselves. These knowledge gaps can be exploited by people who claim to be able to offer the answers. I have seen first-hand, people that I know change their beliefs because of someone they trust either in person or even online telling them something that they believe. This trust relates well to the next article that I would like to discuss. The article named “How to Resist the Temptation of AI When Writing” is the opposite of conspiracy theories. It discusses how to do good research without using AI to write it or generate sources. In this article I liked how it discussed the major advantages of not using AI. It feels like today everyone is using it for some reason or another. But I try not to use it for simple things that I know I can do by myself. In the article it states that “locating credible databases and sources and accurately vetting information can be the difference between turning a story around quickly or getting stuck with outdated information.” What this quote is saying is that it’s important to have up to date information for the things that you are going to argue and talk about. The article talks about great ways to find sources like at the library which have sources for things like Journals data sets and even access to paid resources like embargoed research. A quote about internet sources also struck me “keep in mind that the internet is full of false information, and websites that look trustworthy can sometimes turn out to be businesses or companies with a vested interest in you taking their word as objective fact without additional scrutiny.”  This relates perfectly to the first article because it talks about vested interests. Many vested interests will put out fake information that supports their point of view. So, it is important to always stay vigilant for false information no matter what form it takes. Overall, I think that these articles were informative to read and better prepared me to write and research the facts.